.TH B2RSUM "1" "April 2017" "b2rsum v0.1.2" "BLAKE2 Recursive Sum"

.SH NAME
b2rsum \- compute and check BLAKE2 message digest recursively

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B b2rsum
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... [\fI\,FILE or DIRECTORY\/\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B b2rsum
is a bash script to print or check BLAKE2 checksums recursively. It's a 
.BR b2sum (1)
wrapper that adds the capability of processing an entire directory, so the sums are made using it.

When FILE or DIRECTORY is empty or a dot (.), compute current directory. When FILE is -, read standard input.

The default mode is to compute checksums. Check mode is indicated with --check.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check\fR
read BLAKE2 sums from the FILEs and check them

.TP
\fB\-o\fR[\fI\,FILE\/\fR], \fB\-\-output\fR[=\fI\,FILE\/\fR]
output to FILE instead of standard output, or a
file named BLAKE2SUMS in the current
directory if FILE is not specified

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
quiet mode: don't print messages, only hashes; during
check mode, don't print OK for each successfully
verified file

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-status\fR
very quiet mode: output only hashes, no messages; status
code shows success

.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
show license and exit

.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show version information and exit

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show this text and exit

.SS "The following four options are useful only when computing checksums:"

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-text\fR
read in text mode (default)

.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-binary\fR
read in binary mode

.TP
\fB\-\-tag\fR
create a BSD\-style checksum

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-length\fR
digest length in bits; must not exceed the maximum for
the blake2 algorithm and must be a multiple of 8

.SS "The following three options are useful only when verifying checksums:"

.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-missing\fR
don't fail or report status for missing files

.TP
\fB\-\-strict\fR
exit non\-zero for improperly formatted checksum lines

.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-warn\fR
warn about improperly formatted checksum lines

.PP
The sums are computed as described in RFC 7693.  When checking, the input
should be a former output of this program.  The default mode is to print a
line with checksum, a space, a character indicating input mode ('*' for binary,
\&' ' for text or where binary is insignificant), and name for each FILE.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR b2sum (1)

.SH AUTHOR
.B b2rsum
was written by
.MT hackan@gmail.com
HacKan
.ME .
Check the
.UR https://\:github.com/hackancuba/b2rsum/
repository
.UE
for additional information.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please create an issue at the
.UR https://\:github.com/HacKanCuBa/b2rsum/issues
repository
.UE .

.SH COPYING
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
